Audience
Welcome to the "Weather Cold Knowledge" of this episode
Hong Kong is going to be a wind every year
Reviewing past history, whether pre-war or post-war
Hong Kong has also experienced some serious windstorms.
And the most serious typhoon after the war
It was Wen Qi in 1962.
When the Observatory used to hang the No. 10 typhoon
This storm actually has two characteristics.
The first is the wind is very big
The highest gust recorded at the Observatory
259 kilometers per hour
This record has not broken yet today.
The second is causing a serious storm surge
Because Wen Wei was skipped at a very close south of Hong Kong.
It was then routed in Hong Kong near Cheung Chau.
Most parts of Hong Kong are in the right windy area on the right side.
Blowing east wind and northeast wind
These winds blow the waves into Tolo Harbour.
Let the water level rise
At that time, the water level in Tolo Harbour exceeded 5 meters.
The water level in Victoria Harbour is also close to 4 meters.
Drowning in many places
Sha Tin is the hardest hit
Many places are severe flooding
The storm killed more than 180 people
Thousands of people have been affected
We are fortunate to have a digital number in June this year.
The elderly who had experienced the devastating winds in the past visited the Observatory.
When they see old photos
Then they recalled the memories of their warmth when they hit Hong Kong.
Listen to what they say about the storm
After the storm
Many corpses along the beaches of Cheung Chau
Some are still floating on the sea
My brother and I took the corpses back to the shore and prevented them from rushing out of the sea.
At that time, I estimated that there should be dozens of corpses.
The strongest wind is blowing from the back hospital road to Xinjie
Then, the new street will pass through Queen's Road West and crash into the Gaosheng Theatre.
There is nothing in the building.
But I saw that signboard is crumbling
The signboard is from the second floor to the rooftop, with a total height of four floors.
90 degrees turn to the cross street
The signboard fell to the ground
I used to live near the Chai warehouse in Haitang, North Point.
There is an iron boat moored on the shore
The waves hit the ship to the shore
The waves are more than 20 feet high
The waves are like a wave of hills.
The ship sinks when the waves recede
The wind was very strong at the time.
Rumble when blowing to the wall
It’s still a memorable impression after decades.
Pursuit of stimulation to stay behind
Sudden wind speed
Small piece of static ignorance
When the heart is mad
In fact, it’s not a joke.
If Hong Kong is going to fight again, don’t take it lightly.
Especially parents should not take children to see the waves.
Instead, wind protection measures should be taken to protect family safety.
As Liu Bobo said, "Catch the wind carefully."
Everyone should remember
The "Weather Cold Knowledge" in this episode ends here.
Thank you for watching.